Create 2026-04-15.md (#779)
solid/specification: meetings/2026-04-15.md

* ...: There are interesting ideas about whether WAC could be extended to have the features of ACP as well but that is not in place yet.
* ...: Can the CG get to a point where it can endorse this document where it will be useful in time for the Solid Symposium. To an extent it was proposed as a useful thing to have during this Solid week. So if the document would be useful coming into the community -- after all it is non-normative, it shouldn't be a very high bar to get content in. If this group cannot agree to the existance of ACP and WAC then it is a shame and someone should put it out as an unendorsed document or something.
* SC: Again, we can come up with criteria and re-evaluate. I dont know if the complexity of the technology is favorable here.
* TBL: What you just said was too general for me to udnerstnad. Can you be specific on what is meant by "a complex technology is not necessarily favourable here."
* SC: At the end of the day, we want this thing to be implementable and to get feedback from implementers. WAC has a better track record here. I dont know what new criteria would be needed to make ACP appear better

> * ...: WAC and ACP are not that different when you dive into the evaluation criteria. Different environments need different things. When we look at the open web or social web -- WAC quite literally gives us what we want. This is better than offering something complex that doesn't have the same foundation. If you look at google docs, their interface boils down to read/write/append and control. This is a tech company with a userbase of billions. That is working for that type of environment. I feel that we aren't aiming for that 80-95%, instead we are looking for that 1% that we are trying to optimise for somehow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: WAC and ACP are not that different when you dive into the model. Different environments need different things. When we look at the open web or social web -- WAC quite literally gives us what we want. This is better than offering something complex that doesn't have the same foundation. If you look at google docs, their interface boils down to read/write/append and control. This is from one of the largest tech companies with a userbase of billions. That is working for that type of environment. I feel that we aren't aiming for that 80-95%, instead we are looking for that 1% that we are trying to optimise for somehow.
```

> * ...: We are 10 years into this project. Where are all the applications? Solid has not yet revolutionised the world or fixed the web and we are arguing about the finer details about WAC and ACP, when we should be getting something good enough out the door, and when we have enough people around the table and people to implement it, then yes - we adopt those thigns.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: We are 10 years into this project. Where are all the applications? Solid has not yet revolutionised the world or fixed the web and we are arguing about the finer details about WAC and ACP, when we should be getting something good enough out the door, and when we have enough people around the table and people to implement it, then yes - we adopt those things.
```

> * ...: I ??? the doc that showed different use case. If we look at the Solid vision the solution space is much broader than WAC and ACP, we need capabilities etc. We are also still stuck with things like Solid-OIDC, we are stuck with an identity provider that we don't control. We are putting all of our eggs in one basket and something is going to break somewhere. Many people under the same origin are going to lose access to their identity on the Web. I find it strange that we are debating on these things. We should ask - is WAC giving us 80-90% of what we want. Is it covering everything under the sun. No, but we should be getting from A to B and then B to C. We have had time in the CG, to incubate WAC in the CG not ACP. On access requests I thought the goal of Solid26 was to talk about what is out there today. The only thing that is close in the CG is SAI's approach to access request because it is a recommendation in the CG - not things that are not incubated, that some WG is working on. We don't know what TAG will say, we don't know who will implement it. It is further behind than SAI is or other solutions with inbox's. We should be looking at what is in front of us, not looking too far ahead at what implementations should be doing. We have not eaten our own dog food enough to back it up. Let alone getting on with our own things. The ones that show up, the one who's voice is louder is the one who gets their voice in the group. I don't know if those few voices are better for Solid than looking at a cosensus. I don't want to talk about hypotheticals - especially for Solid26. What can we honestly or modestley tell others about Solid is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: I/We did some work to better understand [how different authz frameworks could work in Solid](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/121) for different uses cases. If we look at the Solid vision the solution space is much broader than WAC and ACP, which are essentially just <abbr title="Attribute Based Access Control">ABAC</abbr> and we are not even talking about capability-based models for instance. We are also still stuck with things like Solid-OIDC, we are stuck with a (third-party) identity provider that we don't necessarily control and can be taken away at any time. We are putting all of our eggs in one basket and something is going to break somewhere. Many people under the same origin are going to lose access to their identity on the Web. I find it strange that we are debating on these things. We should ask - is WAC giving us 80-90%, if not 95%, of what we want. Is it covering everything under the sun, no, but we should be getting from A to B and then B to C. We have had time in the CG, to incubate WAC in the CG not ACP. On access requests I thought the goal of Solid26 was to talk about what is out there today. The only thing that is close in the CG is SAI's approach to access request because it is a recommendation in the CG - not things that are not incubated, that some WG is working on from scratch. We don't know what TAG will say, we don't know who will implement it. It is further behind than SAI is or other solutions with Inboxes. We should be looking at what is in front of us, not looking too far ahead at what implementations should be doing. We have not eaten our own dog food enough to back it up. Let alone getting on with our own things. The ones that show up, the one who's voice is louder is the one who gets their voice in the group. I don't know if those few voices are better for Solid than looking at a consensus but usually not. I don't want to talk about hypotheticals - especially for Solid26. What can we honestly or modestly tell others about what Solid is or can do.
```

* JW: There are WAC and ACP and you can view implementations of each here (link). From the data collected we have seen 13 servers implementing WAC and 2-3 implementing ACP. The quality of those implementations is not known at the time of writting.
* CB: ...
* SC: I don't understand the feedback you want to ask for from implementers.
* CB: Here is current data (link), if you happen to be an implementer and provide feedback, call Roberto.
* SC: I understand that we can come up with resons for it. I look forward to agree on criterias. 
* RB: We plan to gather feedback and funnel it into the community. Especially the server implementations. Doing it in more scientific way. We can also have something we can help implementers with. I have reason to believe that whatever we run throught this process can be more successful.

> * SC: We don't have test suite for ACP, stability and correctness is not even possible. I want to know if the ODI or CG wants to take on that task and ask ESS (implied) to implement WAC. ... Unless that story changed I want to know what are we aiming for? There is a range of things. I know that. ... Should we try to get implementers aligned so that the ecosystem is richer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SC: We don't have test suite for ACP, stability and correctness is not even possible. I want to know if the ODI or CG wants to take on that task and ask ESS (implied) to implement WAC. They are not even conforming to the Solid Protocol. Unless that story changed I want to know what are we aiming for? or optimising for? There is a range of things. I know that. We should try to get implementers aligned so that the ecosystem is richer. In fact, there is already alignment in the ecosystem. Vast majority are aligned around WAC. It is the outliers here that's the concern, and they should align with the rest of the ecosystem.
```
